>> Scott Moss: There is another page to be
done, but I'm gonna leave that page for
you guys to do for extra credit,
to get some more reps in.
So the other page is gonna be, I mean,
the code is here in the notes,
but it's basically the attendees page,
I believe.
So, yeah, need to make a getGuestList
function that does this super
complicated SQL query that I don't
even think it works the way it should.
But do that and make a page for it and
then add that query, pretty simple.
But I figured you can
always get more reps.
Yeah, as far as I wanted to cover here,
this was it.
I think, if you know how to
take advantage of these things,
these are things that I use
all the time in production.
I think you're gonna have
a pleasant experience,
you're gonna be getting
the best out of the framework.
There are other things in
here that I did not touch.
I talked about intercepting routes and
combining them with route or
parallel routes to make modals and
things like that.
But I'll be honest, I just never did that,
I've built it before just to see how it
works, but
I've always had problems with it.
There was always gotchas and
I didn't really seem to care about
having a modal be bound to a URL,
which makes sense.
It's great, you can go back and forth and
close it and open it, it's great.
But, I don't know, I never really did it.
I also use state machines for my UI,
which kinda solves a lot of that anyway.
So, didn't really think about that,
there was a lot that goes on with
the fetch function in Next.js and caching.
I didn't talk about that as
much because like I said,
I don't really use the fetch function
that much directly on the server side.
On the client side, maybe a little bit,
but I don't really use it as much anymore.
So I didn't really feel
the need to talk about it.
And if I don't use it in production,
if I'm not building with it,
I'm not really gonna teach about it.
So, the other things that might
be interesting in Next.js that
I didn't really talk about,
that you might wanna go look at.
This piece right here talks
about different patterns and
best practices around getting data,
like, how do you actually get data and
what are different patterns?
So they talk about loading things in
parallel, they talk about streaming,
they talk about sequential data fetching.
Here's an example where they preload
the data so you export a function that
calls the thing that you need,
you just don't await it, you just call it.
And then you can preload it before
someone actually goes to that route,
and then you can can just check
to see if it's available.
So you could really speed things up.
There's some really cool stuff there.
There's some scenarios where they
talk about, yeah, here we go,
you can run these two things in parallel.
These are both functions
that return promises, but
you don't have to wait on them here,
right?
So you just kinda resolve them together.
So there's a couple of cool concepts
in here that you might wanna check out,
that are quite helpful.
I don't use any of this stuff in
production, so I didn't talk about it, but
I did think it was helpful.
It did help me figure out what
I wanted to do in my app, but
I don't actually use these
patterns in production.
We have another best practices
question with regards to performance.
As your application grows, any kind of
like gotchas or things you should look out
for to make sure your bundle doesn't get
really, really big or things like that.
Yeah, for the most part,
Next.js does a really good job of
optimizing your bundles, right?
It basically starts with splitting
on the routes, it starts from there.
So you can think of every single page you
have in here is it's its own route, right?
Because that's kind of where it starts.
So it won't load up any of its parents or
anything like that, so
every page is its own app.
From there, what you might find out
is that, cuz at the end of the day,
you're just trying to protect the client,
so you gotta start thinking like,
okay, I'm importing these
client components everywhere.
Do these client components
have to be inside, like,
do these client components have to be
loaded before the file is downloaded?
And if that's, it's probably not the case,
what you could do is you can use
the next dynamic, right here,
which basically uses suspense and
lazy loading from react.lazy together.
To basically stream in that client
component inside of another component.
So you could do things like
that to speed things up,
it'd be very situational
when you would use that.
I haven't had the issue where I'm like,
if I didn't have this,
this would have been really bad.
So, I mean, it's cool.
For the most part, people use this
function to bypass server-side rendering.
Like, if you have a client component that
you don't want to be server-side rendered,
because remember everything
gets server-side rendered,
even if it's a client component.
But if you don't want that client
component being rendered server-side
rendered, because maybe it's using
some library that you installed,
that internally uses Window and
you can't change it.
So that's breaking on the server.
So you would dynamically import that and
through here, you can tell it SSR false.
So don't render this on the server,
and it'll bypass that.
So that's the thing.
I would say, other than that,
I would try to, what I found out is
it's best practices to like take out code
that you reuse and put it into its own.
That's why I make multiple files like this
and utils, because it helps the compiler,
like understand what code needs to
go where and help it de-dupe it.
Versus, if it's all stuck in one file or
one place, it's hard to split,
it can't split within a file,
but it can split on a file basis.
So if I have all these other files, it
can just like, all right, you know what,
this isn't being used in this module tree,
so just don't even add it.
Whereas, If I have all this code in the
file, let's say I have 20 functions being
exported and one of those functions I use
somewhere else, it's gotta get that whole
file now, even though I'm only
using one function in there.
So, it's like doing things
like that helps out a lot.
Yeah, for the most part,
I would say, that's it,
and then I would say,
try to get as close to static as possible.
So if your app doesn't need to be dynamic,
as far as like the data that it gets,
then don't make it dynamic for no reason.
So try to get the static,
push everything down to the client.
So your client components are super small,
they handle one interaction,
that's it, and
you'll probably go really far.
So what I recommend as far as what
you should do next, go pick some app
that you like, you use, it could be
a web app, it could be a mobile app.
Something that probably
seems impossible or
at least extremely complicated to build,
and then try to build it in Node.js.
That's gonna force you to use
things you've never used before.
If you pick something that's easy,
you probably won't finish it, or 2,
you won't reach for
tools you've never had to use before.
So I would say, try to do something that's
a little outside of your skill set or
your capability, and
use Next.js to build it.
Just struggle, even if this is
like something you do, like,
I'm just gonna work on this on my
lunch break to do some stuff and
it takes you three months to do, you're
gonna learn a lot through that struggle.
That's really how I learned this stuff.
I'll just pick something that I have no
business trying to build and I'm like,
cool, that's how I'm gonna learn Python.
[LAUGH] It'd be like the craziest thing
and I'm like, okay, I learned it.
That was terrible, but now I know it.
Whereas I realized if I just like,
I'm just gonna go build it to do up right
quick, I don't really learn anything or
I never finish it because
I'm not interested in it.
I have to be interested, so
how do I recommend doing that?
And then, once you do that once or twice,
you'll be comfortable, you can teach
anybody this stuff when it comes to folks
at your company that might need to use it.
Yeah, other than that, that's it,
that's what I wanted to cover,
I hope you guys got a lot from the course.
I try my best to fit everything
that I think was valuable and
useful from my own perspective but
also how other people might see it.
But then also take into account what
Next.js is putting out there in
the community, and trying to align what
they're saying, I don't want to be saying,
they're not saying the right thing,
or I'm not saying the right thing.
I'm just trying to make sure everybody's
benefiting from all this content.
So that was really the most difficult
part, but I'm glad we got it out, and
I hope you guys got some value from it,
and thanks for coming.
>> Student: [APPLAUSE]